All right, here's quiz number.
Number two, I guess.
Sorry.
It's on cool Ohm's Law.
All right, so we have two tiny beads that are 25 centimeters apart and no other charges or fields are
present.
BD carries ten micro coulomb, so you just draw it over here.
A and B.
All right.
So this guy here has ten micro Coulomb.
And this guy here has one micro coulomb.
So smaller amount of charge over here.
Which of the following statements is true about the magnitudes of the electric forces on the beads?
Okay, so we want to know the force.
So this is given by cool Ohm's Law, right?
The magnitude of the force, remember, is K, it'll be Q, A, Q B and divided by the distance R squared.
If you were going to draw the vector of the forces over here, both of those are positively charged
objects.
So I would have a force like this.
F And on this guy here, I would have a force f like this.
And what we would know is they would be the same magnitude, right?
It would be the same magnitude of the force.
If this is 100 Newtons.
This one's also 100 Newtons.
So let's have a look at these choices.
The Force A is ten times the force on B?
Nope.
Force B is ten times.
It's exactly the same as the force.
Right?
The force have to be the exact same because we only have one way of calculating the force and it's between
the two charges.
So it has to be this.
The force can't be different.
Okay.
This is really Newton's third law at work.
For every action, there's an equal and opposite reaction.
Okay.
Same magnitude of the force, different direction in on different objects.
All right.
These are all different forces that can't be this the correct answer.
So make sure you really understand this one.
That's critical, right?
Two objects different charged are going to have the same force acting on them.
All right, let's go.
Scroll down here.
Number two.
All right.
In outer space, a positive charge.
Q This guy over here is released a near a positive fixed charge big.
Q Okay, so let's just kind of highlight this one is the one that released and the big Q is fixed as
Q moves away.
So let me just draw it in a different position.
Eventually, it's going to be moving this way because these are two positives and there is a force acting
on it, right?
There is a repulsive force, at least acting on it.
There's also a force acting on that one.
What is true about the motion of this little Q over here there may be more than one correct choice.
Okay, so keep that in mind.
So first choice, it will move with a decreasing speed.
Okay?
And all of the other choices have to do with either speed or acceleration.
B says it will move at constant acceleration and so forth.
Increasing acceleration, decreasing acceleration, increasing speed.
Well, let's think about what we do know for sure.
We do know that the force acting between them is Q big Q and divided by this distance squared.
So initially that distance is here, but after a period of time, the distance get bigger, right?
This is our later in time, our two, right?
So our gets bigger.
So what happens to our force?
Because I don't change any of the terms in the numerator.
I don't change k I don't change little Q, I don't change big Q.
All I do is I increase this.
So that means that our force has to get smaller as the distance goes away.
So if I was going to draw this vector here a certain length, that means over here I would have to draw
it a little bit smaller.
Now the force is always in the same direction.
However, right here, let me kind of just give myself a bit more space here and have a look at it.
What happens when the charge is over here?
The distance is even further away.
So guess what?
That force should be even smaller.
Okay, so if the force is getting smaller, what can we say about the acceleration of the object?
Remember, Newton's second law told us this.
If you add up all the forces, they have to be equal to the mass times, the acceleration.
So the acceleration is just this force divided by the mass of this little charge.
Q But we don't change the mass.
We only know that the force is getting smaller, so therefore the acceleration is always going to get
smaller.
Okay?
Now so is the acceleration constant.
Look at the second choice.
It certainly can't be constant because the force is not constant.
So get rid of that one.
Okay.
It will move with increasing acceleration.
Well, that doesn't make sense either.
We just said the force is getting smaller, therefore the acceleration is going to get smaller.
Is it moving with decreasing acceleration?
Absolutely right.
The acceleration over at position one, the initial position is big because the forces big acceleration
is getting smaller.
So this one here is okay.
Nothing wrong with that one.
Now the last two have to do with the speed.
So is the speed going to decrease or is the speed going to increase?
So now we have to think how is acceleration and speed related to each other?
The definition of acceleration is the change of velocity versus the change in time.
Now I put a vector here.
However, things are always in the same direction.
So imagine here if the charge is released.
It's released.
That means that the initial speed is zero.
Okay.
So what happens to this?
Well, think about if I'm accelerating, it means that I am speeding up.
So over here I'm going to have some speed because of the forces always trying to speed it up.
Although the force is getting smaller, it's still trying to speed it up.
And over here, the speed is going to get even bigger.
Although the force is getting smaller, it's always in the same direction.
The acceleration is always in the same direction.
So actually this case here, we actually have two of them.
The speed is certainly not going to decrease ever rate it started had zero that it speeds up.
Okay.
Kind of a little bit tricky with this one.
Also, two correct answers.
All right.
Problem three says a hydrogen nucleus, which has a charge of positive E is situated.
So let's draw it out.
One charge positive E is situated to the left of a carbon nucleus, which has a mass of salt, a charge
of six e.
So let's draw it here.
One, two, three, four, five, six.
All right, which statement is true?
Now, again, they're looking at the electrical force experienced by the hydrogen is to the left, and
the magnitude of the force is equal to the force exerted on the carbon nucleus.
All right.
So let's go have a look at this one.
There's this one here.
Makes sense.
So what's the direction of the force?
Both of these are positive.
So on this hydrogen, we would have a force acting like this.
On the carbon here, we would have a force acting like this.
It's pointing to the left.
So that's true.
And the magnitude of the force equals.
Yeah, both of those forces are the same, so I think that one makes sense.
We'll circle that one.
Let's look at the other ones.
And to the left is greater here.
They say that the force is greater.
We know that's not true here.
They say that the forces like that.
The last one choice says that the force on this guy, on the hydrogen nucleus is to the right.
Well, no, we know that's not true, because the forces the force is repulsive between both of those.
All right.
So that's question three.
Let's go down scroll down to number four.
All right.
Two identical charged spheres are a certain distance apart, and each one experiences an electrostatic
force of magnitude.
F.
So here are the.
Okay.
With time, charge gradually diminishes on both spheres by leaking off when each of the spheres has
lost half its initial charge.
What will the magnitude of the electric force be?
All right.
So this is kind of case one, the straw case one.
Case one.
They're separated by some distance.
And we say there's a force acting on it.
All right.
How much charge do we have here initially?
Well, let's imagine this one here has Q and this one here also has Q.
All right.
What's the second case?
The second case?
Well, what happens to the charge?
The charge goes down, right?
It loses half of its initial charge.
So that means in the final configuration, we have the two things that are the same distance apart.
We haven't moved their distance.
However, the charge now is.
Q over two and Q over two.
So let's imagine cool Ohm's Law for the first case.
So I would write it like this.
K Q Q over r squared.
And you can call this Q1 and Q2.
It really doesn't matter.
Yeah, let's do the more general case.
This would be Q1 and Q2.
They don't have to have the same amount of charge.
And that means that this one here would be Q one over two and this wouldn't be Q2 over two.
All right.
How would we write down.
Q Ohm's Law for the second case here?
So you'd have K again, it's still over R squared this term here would be Q one over two and this term
here would be Q two over two.
Now at the end, if you multiply reading through, you're going to have two factors of two.
Over here it's actually one fourth and everything else.
Now it looks the same.
It's kq1 Q2 over R squared.
See, the term in the red bracket is exactly this term right here.
So that means that the force in this case, F two, is actually equal to one fourth, the force in the
first case.
All right.
Notice here, we're going to get a smaller force because it's going down.
Okay.
All right.
So what do we get here for one fourth of F?
It's actually question sorry.
Choice C is the best answer.
Okay.
And this one is just one of them.
You have to work out.
Hopefully you understand that if I have each charge, I'm going to make the force one fourth.
All right, let's go look at the next one.
Problem.
Five.
All right.
Two point charges.
Q One are separated by some distance.
You can go ahead and draw that.
Q1 and Q2.
Again, there are some distance are between them.
That's uppercase.
R if the magnitudes of both charges are doubled.
Okay, so we're going to double the charge and their separation is also double what happens to the force.
All right.
Well, let's write down the force would be kq1q2 over R squared.
All right, let's make the changes now.
Right.
So if you make the changes, what happens?
So we're going to still have the same constant K Now we the magnitude of both charges are doubled.
So that means it would become like two times.
Q one over here and it would be two times.
Q Two for this one because I've doubled each charge.
And then what do I do to the distance?
The separation is also double.
So instead of R, I'm going to have twice R, then I square that.
So what you want to do now is you want to take out all the numerical factors, right?
So we're going to have this one, two multiplied by two.
That gives me four.
However you notice this two here is get squared because of cool Ohm's Law and once I square it, another
four comes out.
So at the end these factors of four simply cancel each other out and you're going to be left with the
exact same force equation.
So in this case it actually remains the same is the best choice double both charges and you double the
distance, you actually get the same force.
So make sure you understand these.
I think these are kind of good problems.
I love asking my students these questions.
See if they can understand the equations.
All right.
Two point charges, kind of a similar one here for problem six.
Q1 and Q2 again are separated.
Okay.
Look, in this case, the magnitudes of both charges are halved.
So you make them smaller.
That would make the force smaller.
And their separation is also halved.
Okay.
So you also make the separation half what happens to the electrical force?
All right.
Let's draw the first case.
So it was Q1 and Q2.
And they're separated by.
Ah.
I'll write it out.
Out long.
In this case, the forth between both of them would be okay.
Q one.
Q two divided by our squared.
All right.
Let's do the bottom case.
What do we have the charges?
Half the Q1 over to the charge over here is Q two over two.
Oops.
I didn't make the separation.
I left the separation there.
So the separation should be something like this.
All right.
So let's kind of move this a little closer.
And now we've got to change the separation.
The separation now is.
Smaller.
It's all over, too.
All right.
How would you write down cool Ohm's Law for the interaction between both of these objects over here?
Well, you'd have my k constant.
You'd have my two charges.
Q one over two.
Q two over two and now divided by the distance.
The distance now is half.
All right, now, again, what you want to do is you want to factor out all of those terms, right?
So you're going to have K.
Q one.
Q two or you're going to have one over four in the numerator, right?
One over four.
But now take a look at the denominator term here.
This becomes R squared over four, right?
You got to square this two right here.
Now, at the end, both of these fours again are going to cancel out and you're going to be left with
the expression that looks exactly the same.
Right?
You're going to be the left that might force even after making all of those changes, it simplifies
to Q1, Q2, over R squared.
All of these other factors have to end up canceling out.
Okay.
So at the end, both of these expressions are the same.
So we have to have choice.
E is the correct answer for this one.
All right.
Great job, everybody.